If you're upgrading from a previous version of sn, please read
INSTALL.upgrade first.

To install sn:

0) Decide if you want the compression feature compiled in.  It's
   safe to compile it in; you don't have to use it if you don't want
   to.

   If you do want compression, get and install libz.so or libz.a
   first.  You'll also need zlib.h and zconf.h.  These appear to
   be missing in some Linux distributions.

   The email address "postmaster" (on localhost, see also config.h)
   should already exist, and the email system, at least local email,
   should be operational.  sn will use email for some error messages.
   The executable "/bin/mail" should exist.

   If you are installing on something other than Linux, (such as Solaris)
   remember to run the GNU utilities. I.e. when it says "make" below,
   you should run "gmake" if that is the name of GNU make on your system.

1) Edit Makefile.  The make variables to look out for are SNROOT
   and PREFIX which are the news spool location and where to put the
   executables and man pages, respectively. Unset the ZLIB variable if
   you have decided to disable compression.

   In the following, SNROOT refers to the value of SNROOT as you
   have set it in the Makefile; likewise for PREFIX.

   SNROOT should be on a local filesystem, not NFS.

2) Edit config.h.  Probably nothing to change, but follow the
   comments.

3) Build it.  Type "make", then "make -n install" to see where
   things will be installed to; "make strip" optionally to strip the
   binaries.  "make clean" if you want to start over.

4) Create the directories and the fifo:
     $ mkdir SNROOT
     $ mkdir PREFIX/sbin
     $ mkdir PREFIX/man/man8
     $ mknod -m 600 SNROOT/.fifo p
   Change the ownership of SNROOT and SNROOT/.fifo to the user and
   group for which you want sn to run (for instance, news.news).
   This is important: the ownership of SNROOT determines sn's
   running privileges.  Do NOT make the owner root.

5) If you're upgrading from a previous version of sn, please read
   INSTALL.upgrade next.  Finally, "make install" in the source
   directory.

Read INSTALL.run for a quick introduction on how to run sn.

